Scenario: Buying items.

Assumptions:
Player is carrying 100 gold
Player has 8 inventory slots, 5 of which are free.
Player is holding (in inventory): sword of fire, basic leather armor, wand
Player is in the town, at position (12,15,0)
Item shop has a door at position (12,10,0)
Shopkeeper at (13,8,0)
Shop sells health potion, 10 gold, basic sword, 50 gold, basic leather armor, 50 gold

Player taps inventory button. Inventory window opens over main map showing the player's items. Player notices they have no health potions and so decides to go to the store to buy some. Player taps map button, causing inventory window to close.

Player then taps the store's door on the map. The player's avatar moves to the door and enters.
When the player enters the item shop, the room becomes transparent, allowing the player to see inside.  There is a shopkeeper at (13,8,0) and a few chests (unimportant) scattered around the room. The player taps the shopkeeper and player's avatar pathfinds to stand by the shopkeeper. A split-screen view opens, on the left showing the items the shop has to offer, and on the right showing the player's items. The player locates the health potion in the shop's screen and drags it over to the inventory side.

The game checks to see if the player has enough gold, then decrements player's gold by 10 (the cost of the potion) and adds the potion to player inventory. The potion appears in the player's inventory screen. The player does this again, and again. After the shop has sold 3 health potions to the player a message comes up warning player that the shop will only sell 3 health potions at a time (to prevent item spamming).

Player then decides that, since the basic leather armor really in player's inventory really isn't useful anymore, player is going to sell it. Player drags the armor from inventory to the store inventory. The game calculates a reduced buy-back price of 30 gold, credits player by this amount, and removes the armor from player's inventory.

Player taps the map button, closing the buy-sell screen, and taps the doorway of the item shop. Player avatar pathfnds to the door and exits the shop.